# Phantom's Consulting Playbook

[<- Back](../README.md)

    Every project is unique, every project is the same.

## Client Relationship

Every client relationship is built on trust. And the only meaningful way to
build trust is to consistently deliver value. We have two paths to achieving
this: helping them generate new revenue or helping them lower existing costs.

### 1. Generate new revenue

    When we talk about boosting a company's earnings, we're really aiming to
    increase their total sales or income. This is the money they make before
    taking out any expenses. We can do this by upping prices, selling to more
    customers, or bringing out new products.

### 2. Lower existing costs

    But, it's not just about earning more - we also want to make sure we're
    not spending too much. So, we try to keep a close eye on the costs of
    making our products, to ensure they're not eating up all our extra income.
    By doing this, we increase the overall profit, which is the money left
    over after paying all costs, and this extra profit is good news for
    everyone involved in the company.

## Ways of Working

As technology consultants we incorporate Lean Startup, Design Thinking, and
Agile Development into a working methodology. Lean Startup principles guide
us to initiate projects with a minimum viable product, optimizing resources
and facilitating immediate customer feedback. Through Design Thinking, we
prioritize empathizing with end-users, fostering user-centric solutions.
Agile Development's iterative process allows for continuous refinement,
delivering value more quickly and responding effectively to changes. This
fusion of methodologies facilitates efficient, customer-focused, and adaptive
project development.

### Lean Startup

**Minimum Viable Product**

    The concept of "Minimum Viable Product" (MVP) involves developing a
    preliminary version of a new product that facilitates maximum learning with
    minimal effort. This process includes identifying a problem, creating an MVP
    to tackle it, and then evolving the product based on customer feedback. In
    the role of a Technology Architect, one's responsibility lies in designing a
    simple yet effective blueprint of the technology solution, referred to as
    the Minimum Viable Architecture. This approach promotes fast-paced learning
    and adaptation while ensuring minimal resource expenditure. The Architect's
    duty involves collaborating with stakeholders to pinpoint the core issue,
    designing an architectural solution to address it, and then iterating the
    solution based on feedback.

**A/B Testing**

    A/B testing, a process where two versions of a webpage, advertisement, or
    product are evaluated to determine superior performance, involves identifying
    an element for testing, creating two variants (A and B), dividing your
    audience, and then measuring success based on set metrics. This methodology
    is pivotal in making architectural decisions. It entails devising multiple
    architectural strategies, implementing them under controlled scenarios, and
    then comparing their performance against predefined Key Performance
    Indicators (KPIs) to pinpoint the most efficient solution.

**Muda**

    "Muda," a Japanese term signifying "waste," is utilized in the Lean Startup
    context to indicate any activity that utilizes resources but adds no value.
    In the Lean Startup framework, your mission would be to spot and eradicate
    such wasteful activities or "Muda" in your process, whether they are
    inefficient processes or under-utilized resources within your technological
    architecture. By doing so, you aim to enhance efficiency and productivity,
    thereby creating a more streamlined technological environment.

### Design Thinking

**Creative Confidence**

    The term "creative confidence" refers to the belief in one's capability
    to induce change in their surroundings. As an Architect, your role could
    encompass creating an atmosphere that fosters creativity, inspiring your
    team to undertake innovative risks, and nurturing a mindset that perceives
    setbacks not as failures but as opportunities for learning and growth. By
    fostering creative confidence, you aim to stimulate inventive thinking for
    problem-solving and design, encouraging an environment where fresh
    architectural ideas can flourish, and where challenges are seen as
    pathways to learning.

**Event Storming**

    Event storming is a workshop method used to swiftly explore intricate
    business domains, which requires inviting domain experts and key
    stakeholders to collaborate and illustrate the sequence of events and
    commands, thereby fostering a mutual understanding of the business
    process. Your role would entail organizing and conducting these workshops
    to collaboratively visualize and chart out the event flow within your
    technology architecture. This collective approach aids in unearthing
    potential issues while fostering a shared comprehension of the
    architectural process.

**Prototyping**

    Prototyping involves generating a quick, rudimentary version of a product
    to visualize, examine, and enhance the design. In an architectural
    context, your task would encompass creating a prototype, gathering user
    feedback on it, and subsequently refining your design based on this
    feedback. Prototyping in this sense refers to creating initial drafts or
    models of the proposed architecture for visualization and testing. The
    feedback obtained from these early versions plays a crucial role in
    refining and optimizing the final architectural design.

### Agile Development

**Agile Principles**

    Agile Principles represent a set of fundamental guidelines for software
    development where requirements and solutions progressively evolve via
    the collaborative effort of self-organizing, cross-functional teams. Your
    role would include not only familiarizing yourself and your team with
    these principles, but also ensuring they are followed throughout your
    project. This means embracing and applying Agile Principles to the
    technological architecture process, fostering a dynamic, collaborative
    approach where architectural requirements and solutions are permitted to
    evolve through interactions with self-organizing, cross-functional teams.

**Scrum**

    Scrum is a framework designed to tackle complex adaptive problems,
    enabling productive and creative delivery of high-value products. As part
    of your role, you would need to comprehend Scrum roles, such as the
    Product Owner, Scrum Master, and Development Team, manage work in sprints,
    and ensure the effective application of the Scrum methodology. In
    implementing the Scrum framework within your architecture development
    process, your tasks would involve defining Scrum roles, dividing work into
    manageable units known as sprints, and continually iterating and refining
    the architectural design based on feedback and learnings gleaned from each
    sprint.

**Extreme Programming**

    Extreme Programming (XP) constitutes a software development methodology
    intended to enhance the quality of software and its adaptability to
    evolving customer requirements. Your role might involve understanding and
    implementing its practices such as pair programming, continuous
    integration, and test-driven development. To incorporate XP methodologies
    into your architectural processes, you might adopt techniques like paired
    architecting for peer review and continuous integration of architectural
    components, thereby ensuring quality and responsiveness to changing needs.

## Onboarding

### Formal Activities

- Complete roll-on for client data protection

- Read statement-of-work (SOW), review program structure and organization chart

- Setup access (Teams, ADO, Jira, Confluence, etc.)

### Informal Activities

- Company background research: website, social media, financial reports,
  job boards, news, etc.

- Draw program structure and organization chart

- Initial internal problem and technology research

- Log of contacts

- Glossary of terms

- Open questions

## Assess Current State

In this phase, the current state of the technology landscape is thoroughly
reviewed and documented. This involves understanding the existing systems,
technologies, processes, and challenges to provide a baseline for the future
state design. Here's a more detailed breakdown:

### Document Existing Systems and Technology

This involves inventorying and detailing all current hardware, software, and
technology solutions in use. Key attributes, such as functionalities,
interfaces, dependencies, data flow, and performance characteristics, are
documented.

### Identify Strengths and Weaknesses

Next, the performance of existing systems is evaluated to identify strengths
and areas for improvement. This could include assessing system reliability,
scalability, maintainability, security, and overall performance. Both technical
aspects (like system robustness) and user-oriented aspects (like ease of use)
are considered.

### Understand Business Processes and User Needs

This step involves analyzing current business processes, understanding how the
existing systems support these processes, and identifying areas of misalignment
or inefficiency. Additionally, it's important to understand the needs, pain
points, and preferences of the system users.

### Evaluate Compliance with Standards and Regulations

Here, the current systems are evaluated for compliance with industry standards,
best practices, and regulatory requirements. This includes, for example,
security standards, data privacy regulations, and accessibility standards.

### Conduct Gap Analysis

A gap analysis involves comparing the current state with the organization's
goals and objectives to identify gaps. This could include technology gaps,
capability gaps, performance gaps, etc. The identified gaps are crucial in
defining the direction for the future state design.

### Compile Current State Report

Finally, all findings from the current state assessment are compiled into a
detailed report. This report provides a comprehensive view of the current
technology landscape, performance, challenges, and gaps, and serves as a
critical input for the future state design.

## Design Future State

In this stage, our goal is to envision and articulate the optimal architecture
that will serve the organization's needs going forward. This involves
forecasting technology trends, business strategies, and user needs to create a
roadmap for the infrastructure and applications landscape that will support
the company's growth and strategic objectives.

### Establish Functional and Non-Functional Requirements

This phase involves detailed discussions with stakeholders to determine both
the functional (what the system should do) and non-functional (how the system
should perform) requirements. The functional requirements describe the specific
tasks, inputs, processes, and outputs that the system must perform.
Non-functional requirements, on the other hand, specify system performance,
security, scalability, reliability, and maintainability, among other aspects.

### Establish Guiding Principles and Patterns

In this phase, we identify and establish architectural principles that will
guide all future design and implementation decisions. These principles provide
a strategic context for decision-making and help maintain consistency in the
architectural design across the system. Additionally, we identify architectural
patterns that solve specific problems and can be used as best practices
throughout the project.

### Make Key Architecture Decicisions

Making key architecture decisions involves assessing trade-offs and choosing
the right path based on requirements, constraints, and the future vision. This
could include choices about technology stacks, architectural patterns, cloud
versus on-premise solutions, integration approaches, and more. It's crucial
that these decisions are documented, communicated, and revisited as needed.

### Create Strawman Architecture

Creating a Strawman architecture involves developing a preliminary version of
the architecture, serving as a starting point for discussions and refinement.
It should include high-level design elements, interfaces, and a rudimentary
layout of system components. This is meant to stimulate thought and discussion
and can be modified based on feedback and evolving requirements.

### Create Proof of Architecture

The Proof of Architecture phase involves building a small-scale, simplified
version of the system or a particular component to validate the architectural
decisions. It helps in identifying potential issues and risks in the initial
stages, reducing the cost and time implications of architectural changes down
the line. It also serves as a demonstration to stakeholders, reassuring them
of the viability of the architectural plan.
